## Table of Contents
* [What is terraform.tfstate?](#item1)
* [What is a remote backend?](#item2)
* [Remote services](#item3)
* [Terraform state commands](#item4)
* [Configuring the remote backend in S3](#item5)

# Terraform Remote Backend Configuration with AWS S3 and DynamoDB

<a name="item1"></a>
## What is terraform.tfstate?
The `terraform.tfstate` file is an important file generated by Terraform that stores the current state of the managed infrastructure. It contains information about created resources, their configuration, relationships, and relevant metadata.

<a name="item2"></a>
## What is a remote backend?
A remote backend in Terraform refers to the configuration of storing Terraform's state in a remote storage service instead of storing it locally in the file system. This is useful in collaborative environments where multiple people work on the same infrastructure or in distributed environments where multiple Terraform instances need to share the same state.

<a name="item3"></a>
## Remote services
- **AWS S3:** Using an S3 bucket to store Terraform state.
- **Azure Blob Storage:** Using a Blob Storage container in Azure.
- **Google Cloud Storage:** Using a Cloud Storage bucket in Google Cloud Platform.
- **Terraform Cloud/Enterprise:** Using the remote backend service provided by HashiCorp as part of Terraform Cloud or Terraform Enterprise.

<a name="item4"></a>
## Terraform state commands
- `terraform show`: Displays extended details of the infrastructure.
- `terraform state list`: Shows a quick list of resources.
- `terraform state show aws_instance.my_instance`: Displays information about a specific resource.

<a name="item5"></a>
## Configuring the remote backend in S3
To configure a remote backend with AWS S3, you need two resources before applying the configuration:
1. **S3 Bucket:** To securely store data with versioning.
2. **DynamoDB:** It's a NoSQL database managed by AWS used for state locking.

### Terraform Configuration
1. **AWS Credentials**:
   Configure your credentials in `~/.aws/credentials`:
   ```plaintext
   [default]
   aws_access_key_id = YOUR_ACCESS_KEY_ID
   aws_secret_access_key = YOUR_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY


2. **Terraform Structure**
   - main-tf
   - variables.tf
   - output.tf
   - provider.tf
   - backend.tf

3.  **Use Terraform commands to initialize**:
```
terraform init
```
```
terrafomr plan
```
```
terrafomr apply
```

